no anyhow after the Big Ideas thing
Waldeck came into my classes and taped
maps of meaning and made 13 30 minutes a
TV shows out of them and that was pretty
interesting and they were broadcast and
kind of evanescent because at that point
they weren't put on the web so their
broadcast they pretty much disappear
right and so so so so fine so and I got
some degree of what would you say I got
I was exposed my ideas were exposed to a
large number of people tens of thousands
of people as a consequence of that and
that seemed to go pretty well and so
then YouTube came along and I thought
well I don't know what this is this
YouTube thing and you know the comments
section makes you like what would you
say wary about being human I would say
generally speaking and you know there
was a lot of well there were a lot of
things that it would be easy to be
contemptuous of on YouTube like the
canonical cute cat videos but I'm
actually not so contemptuous of that or
the interesting animal videos because I
think they actually speak to a part of
people that's actually quite good we
like cats we like dogs we think animals
are kind of cool and you know we take a
break and look at look at something
that's Pleasant and cute and maybe
that's not so bad it's not serious but
it's certainly not malevolent and that's
something so I thought okay well I'll
find these old videos I did for TV oh
and I'll put them up on YouTube and
maybe I'll just tape my classes and so I
set up because I have this theory that
if it's worth doing it's worth doing
badly which you know it's true but it's
also true that if it's worth doing it's
worth doing well you just need to know
when to apply those two principles and
if you're loathe to do something and
procrastinating then sometimes it's
better to do it badly and I thought well
I can't get a whole production studio up
and running and because I just don't
have the time I'll get an iPad and learn
to use it and get a lavalier mic and
just set the thing up or maybe have a
student film it and so I did that for a
couple of years for my personality class
in this
meaning class which is the class where I
outlined the sorts of ideas that I just
described to you and last April I
noticed that I'd had a million views and
about 15,000 subscribers no one I
thought huh million views eh that's
actually a lot of views it's like if I
have never write a scientific paper
that's been read a million times no one
has that just never happens right so
that's happens zero times if it if you
have a paper that's cited you know
someone else refers to it and one of
their scientific papers a hundred times
it's like that's a home run and a
thousand times is a miracle so and then
if you write a book you know there's
think 1.2 million books published last
year something like that and I think 500
of them sold more than a hundred
thousand copies so that's a sea of books
right it's an ocean of books and all of
them fail really so so many of them fail
that you might as well never write a
book because the probability that it
will fail is like 99.99% and that would
be very depressing if it wasn't the case
that that's the case for anything
creative you ever do so it's just
baseline probability but I thought well
if I wrote a book and it sold a million
copies man I'd be out dancing in the
street probably not but you know you get
the idea so what does it mean to have a
million YouTube views well who the hell
knows right I mean we don't have metrics
for that we don't know what sort of
influence that's having we don't know
anything about that we don't know
whether we should take it seriously or
or if it's or who you're talking to or
anything but I thought well still it's a
million and that's a lot and I thought
well maybe this is this is more serious
thing than I initially envisioned and
then I really thought about it and I
thought oh I get it here's a hypothesis
you know back in the medieval times and
before if if you wanted a book someone
had to copy it by hand and so there
weren't many books and they were very
expensive and so and then Gutenberg came
along and invented the movable type
press and it was like poof books were
inexpensive and everybody could have
them and not like was that was a major
revolution right within four hundred
years almost every
in the western world and then very
rapidly almost everyone in the entire
world was literate and could read
silently even which was something that
before that was reserved for a very
small number of people because most
people read out loud when they read at
all so that was a massive revolution and
then I thought wait a minute maybe
YouTube is a Gutenberg revolution
because it allows the spoken word to
have the same reach and longevity as a
book for the first time in human history
spontaneous speeches can reach an
infinite audience for a for an
unspecified duration of time well that's
a whole new thing that's a that's an
entirely new thing and maybe it's easier
for people to listen than it is for them
to read you know I mean I'd rather read
than listen because I can read way
faster than I can listen but people will
listen to a YouTube video at twice the
normal speed sometimes more so you can
circumvent that and then also with a
youtube video if you convert it into a
podcast let's say which I'll get to to a
moment you all of a sudden have way more
time than you used to have because you
can listen to a podcast while you're
doing other things so you can do mundane
the mundane things that you have to do
from day to day like commute and so on
but you can listen to a podcast and I've
found that my students my young students
are now listening to podcasts instead of
music and that's really something you
know because music of course has been an
unbelievably dynamic cultural force for
maybe the the primary artistic cultural
force for what maybe maybe since the
1950s anyways and that's being
supplanted to some degree by podcasts
and that's really something and then it
also turns out that people have an
appetite for long detailed podcasts that
are deep and informative it's like who
the hell would have guessed that like no
one it's it just sort of came out of
nowhere
and so I thought well maybe this is
worth taking seriously